                                   How Internalized Emotions Turn Into Physical Pain



We all internalize things, situations, or even people differently. You cannot pour from an empty cup. My husband has been continuously telling me this because it was such a difficult lesson for me. It's still a difficult less for me and most days I have to make a dedicated effort to remember it. Most of my life was spent putting the needs of others before my own. I was always proud of the fact that I cared so much about others, because in my mind, that meant that I was a good person and could look myself in the mirror every day and feel good about me.

Now lets look at the other side of the spectrum... looking at other viewpoints of a situation is so very difficult because most people only want to see one side of things. Some, because they feel so passionately about their side that they cannot be open enough to at least try to see another viewpoint. Others, because seeing another viewpoint would show another a very uncomfortable truth that they may not be ready to see.

Here's what I mean: I used to truly believe and be happy with who I was; taking care of and making sure everyone I loved was OK. Now, mind you, I'm not saying that this is not a lovely way to be because I believe it is. But, in taking care of everyone before myself, can you guess, who didn't get taken care of? While making sure everyone else was OK, all of my time, effort, money, and love was spent on another person. At the end of the day, the week, or even the month, I didn't make much deserved time for me. At the end of the day, I internalized it as me being not as important as everyone else in my life.

I've spoken a lot about the Law of Attraction and I believe this to be true. Our brains are much more powerful than we can even comprehend sometimes. It is your brain that can and will dictate what comes our way just by our thoughts. And not just our thoughts, but our perceptions. Just as like attracts like in thoughts, if you perceive these thoughts to be negative, your attracting more perceived "negativity" into your life.

Did you ever notice a situation unfold with two very different people and two very different, opposite reactions? Maybe one person reacted calm, cool, and collected; the other person would fly off the handle and create a snowball effect of negativity in their world that day. Here's an example: One person sitting in traffic that is seriously not moving, is very angry and gets themselves in a bad mood, and now for the rest of the day, that negativity snowballs and grows as other things negatively happening, such as the copier being broken when you get to work, or your food being cold when you get it. Meanwhile, the other person takes the stand still of the traffic and enjoys their alone time for a bit. This person understands that there is nothing they can do about it so maybe dancing and singing it out to their favorite song is just what they do. Taking a negative situation and putting a positive spin on it is so very difficult, but also very liberating.

It's really not about who in that situation is right and who is wrong, but for you to see that your brain can and does internalize everything. And your brain does also internalize things perceived by you as right or wrong. If we could just stop with the judgments of ourselves and others, and allow each experience we have in front of us to help us grow and become more grounded, we would then gain better health. Just as your brain attracts to you what you internalize, without your even realizing it, so does your body. Your body is no different. Your body gives you little signs that something is wrong on a daily basis also. Most people are so used to ignoring these signs, that they can't even see them now. When you internalize these negative emotions and keep them there, they sit in your body as aches and pains. Eventually after your body has been screaming at you for quite a bit, it begins creating disease.

Any aches, pains, or tightness in certain areas in the body, often have to do with the emotions your holding on to within yourself. This may sound very silly, but it's because most people are just not in touch with what goes on in their body's. I can tell you beyond a shadow of a doubt that this is most certainly true as I've experienced it personally. It was through much counseling and reading and wanting to heal myself that I realized this to be true. Growing up in a home where the kids were to be seen and not heard, one might internalized my that their voice and opinion didn't matter. That same child may just learn to live quietly, and never have an opinion, for most of her life. It's that very child that would end up later in life with Thyroid Cancer.

Now some might choose to look at the right and the wrong in that situation, in judgment, but again, the judgment is not necessary, nor is it the point. Others may just choose to have a better understanding and seeing the bigger picture; that any negative emotion internalized, will breed aches, pains, and even disease if internalized long enough. Being that child I just talked about, I make a dedicated effort every day now, to speak my truth, no matter how I feel it will be received. I choose not to live in the right or wrong of a situation in judgment, but to learn the lesson and know my self worth. This is a difficult task, not just for me, but for many.

Here are some pains that are directly linked to emotions that we can acknowledge and help ourselves heal:

Head Pain

Often times, head pain signifies being overwhelmed. If you were to just acknowledge being overwhelmed and find a healthy, constructive way to move past it, you would easily move past it. Do you love to cook, write, dance, or paint? Do one of those things that you love and give back some much deserved time for your relaxation. Take some time for yourself to do some relaxing meditation. Let yourself know that you deserve it and your worth it!

Neck Pain

Physical symptoms of neck pain have to do with disc disease or osteoporosis. Whenever these symptoms appear, you may be holding on to an emotional fear of life or an insecurity. Maybe these emotions are helping you to be stubborn and inflexible. If this is something that you recognize, try to make a conscious effort to see the other side of a situation and understand that there is no right and wrong, only lessons that help you grow and be more grounded and healthy.

Shoulder Pain

Physical symptoms of shoulder pain can be telling you that you are holding the weight of the world on your shoulders, and not taking the time for self care. Shoulder pain may show up because it represents our personal ability to carry life's experience with joy and gratitude; not a burden. Try to learn the lesson and grow. Take the time for yourself and the well-being of your mind, body, and spirit!

Upper Back Pain

Upper back pain usually represents itself as feelings of lack of emotional support. The feelings of being unloved, or not loved enough show up and this is a reminder that we are in charge of our own happiness. We need to remember that at the end of the day, WE are responsible for our own happiness. Go and get what it is that you want, no matter how uncomfortable this may feel. Because you deserve at least that much and much much more!!

Middle Back Pain

Middle back pain usually represents itself as feelings of guilt or just plain being stuck in the past. Again, this is a reminder to see the situation, not placing guilt, or right and wrong, but for the growth of your own happiness in this moment.

Lower Back Pain

Physical symptoms of lower back pain may show as sciatica, pelvic disorders, kidney stones, or colon issues. These symptoms may appear when your are in fear or lack of financial support. Any pain in this area may keep you in a constant state of fear, because now you may think, "What if I can't work because of this?" See this snowball? It could be catastrophic if you are the person that will let it. Again, listen to your body, and find the source of this pain. Take care of you to do what needs to be done, so that you can release these emotions that are bringing your body pain.

Knee Pain

Knee pain shows up when we have an inability to bend or become inflexible on certain topics, feelings, or emotions. Again, remember there are two very different types of people in the world and three sides to every story; at the end of the day, none of these things truly matters. It doesn't matter who's right or wrong or even what has happened. Our happiness is what truly matters. It's only what we take and learn from these situations, and how we love ourselves in the end that will keep us healthy and whole.

Hip Pain

Hip pain is a sign of indecision; being afraid to make a major decision and move forward. First and foremost, think about the very worst possible thing that could happen if you make the wrong decision. You may need to start over. This may be something huge for some, but for others it's a great learning experience, because they were able to remain positive. Its all a matter of perception. Make it a great learning experience for you and learn to trust your gut. In most cases, you'll find that you had the correct answer the whole time, but didn't trust yourself enough to take the first step. Fear is one things that will keep us in a state of imbalance which is what creates disease. Love you enough to trust in you!

Ankle Pain

Ankle pain denotes emotions of inflexibility and guilt. This is a direct representation of the ability to receive or not receive pleasure. Again, sometimes we just simply need to remember how very important our happiness is. We need to remind ourselves daily to take the well deserved time for ourselves and our well-being.

I started out here with "You cannot pour from an empty cup!", and while I believe this to be true, I still have to work every day to remember this and try to continue to undue some of the negativity I've allowed to stay in me and in my body. This is a work in progress for myself to continuously move beyond my definition of each experience and use those experiences to move into a state of awareness, so that I may keep myself and my body grounded in the here and now and stay healthy. Old habits do indeed die hard, but all we can do is learn from experiences we've had and do the best we can for ourselves each and every day. Learn and work every day to keep your mind, body, and spirit in a state of balance! This is what keeps you healthy and whole~!

"If someone wishes for good health, one must first ask oneself if he is ready to do away with the reasons for his illness. Only then is it possible to help him."

~Hippocrates

"No one can make you feel inferior without your consent."




